.TH DICL 1 2022-07-17
.SH NAME
dicl \- command-line interface for selected online dictionaries
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY dicl
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.IR WORD ...
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Look up the definition of \fIWORD\fR in supported online dictionaries
and display the results in terminal.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.BR \-l , \ \-\-language=\fILANG
Search only entries where the \fIWORD\fR is in language \fILANG\fR.
For example, if both an English and a German dictionary is installed,
the command
.B dicl\ \-\-language=de\ bald
will only search the meaning of the German word \fBbald\fR,
not the English one.
.TP
.BR \-d , \ \-\-dictionary=\fIDICT
Search in dictionary named \fIDICT\fR.
Can be repeated to search in multiple dictionaries.
The default is to search in all installed dictionaries.
.TP
.B \-\-plain
Output the results as plain text. When using this option, the text
content of the result is printed as is, with only minimal formatting
applied to make it readable in terminal (like breaking long lines).
.TP
.B \-\-structured
Attempt to semantically parse the entry and output the results in a
structured format. Note that the amount of structured information
which can be extracted from an entry varies greatly between dictionaries,
and the results may not reflect the original content correctly.
Therefore, this option is only supported for some dictionaries,
others will simply ignore it.
.TP
.B \-\-nocolor
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-list-dictionaries
Show a list of installed dictionaries and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v , \ \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity. This option can be repeated to increase verbosity
even further.
.TP
.BR \-h , \ \-\-help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
